## References
https://github.com/morvencao/kube-sidecar-injector/blob/master/medium-article.md#write-the-webhook-server
https://github.com/morvencao/kube-sidecar-injector/blob/master/cmd/webhook.go
https://dev.to/douglasmakey/implementing-a-simple-k8s-admission-controller-in-go-2dcg


Admission controllers are powerful tools for intercepting requests to the Kubernetes API server prior to persistence of the object. 
However, they are not very flexible due to the requirement that they are compiled into binary into kube-apiserver and configured by the 
cluster administrator. Starting in Kubernetes 1.7, Initializers and External Admission Webhooks are introduced to address this limitation.
In Kubernetes 1.9, Initializers stays in alpha phase while External Admission Webhooks have been promoted to beta and split into 
MutatingAdmissionWebhook and ValidatingAdmissionWebhook.

MutatingAdmissionWebhook together with ValidatingAdmissionWebhook are a special kind of admission controllers which process mutating 
and validating on requests matching the rules defined in MutatingWebhookConfiguration(explained below).

## Benefit of Webhooks
Webhooks allow Kubernetes cluster-admin to create additional mutating and validating admission plugins to the admission chain of
apiserver without recompiling them. This provides end-developer with the freedom and flexibility to customize admission logic on 
multiple actions("CREATA", "UPDATE", "DELETE"...) on any resource. The possible applications are vast. 

Some common use cases includes:

- Mutating resources before creating them. Istio, a representative example, injecting Envoy sidecar container to target pods to implement traffic management and policy enforcement.
- Automated provisioning of StorageClass. Observes creation of PersistentVolumeClaim objects and automatically adds storage class to them based on predefined policy. Users that do not need to care about StorageClass creating.
- Validating complex custom resource. Make sure custom resource can only be created after its definition and all dependencies created and available.
- Restricting namespace. On multi-tenant systems, avoid resources created in reserved namespaces.

## How MutatingAdmissionWebhook works
- MutatingAdmissionWebhook intercepts requests matching the rules defined in **MutatingWebhookConfiguration** before presisting into etcd.
- MutatingAdmissionWebhook executes the mutation by sending admission requests to webhook server.
- Webhook server is just plain http server that adhere to the API.

### The MutatingAdmissionWebhook needs three objects to function:

#### MutatingWebhookConfiguration

MutatingAdmissionWebhook need to be registered in the apiserver by providing MutatingWebhookConfiguration. During the registration process, MutatingAdmissionWebhook states:

- How to connect to the webhook admission server
- How to verify the webhook admission server
- The URL path of the webhook admission server
- Rules defining which resource and what action it handles
- How unrecognized errors from the webhook admission server are handled

#### MutatingAdmissionWebhook itself

MutatingAdmissionWebhook is a plugin-style admission controller that can be configured into the apiserver. 
The MutatingAdmissionWebhook plugin get the list of interested admission webhooks from MutatingWebhookConfiguration. 
Then the MutatingAdmissionWebhook observes the requests to apiserver and intercepts requests matching the rules in admission webhooks and calls them in parallel.

#### Webhook Admission Server

Webhook Admission Server is just plain http server that adhere to Kubernetes API. 
For each request to the apiserver, the MutatingAdmissionWebhook sends an admissionReview(API for reference) to the relevant
webhook admission server. The webhook admission server gathers information like object, oldobject, and userInfo from admissionReview,
and sends back a admissionReview response including AdmissionResponse whose Allowed and Result fields are filled with the admission decision 
and optional Patch to mutate the resoures.

## Prerequisites to run webhook

You can verify that using the following command:

```sh
kubectl api-versions
```

You should check that MutatingAdmissionWebhook and ValidatingAdmissionWebhook are activated in your cluster inspecting the kube-apiserver.
```sh
--enable-admission-plugins=..,MutatingAdmissionWebhook,ValidatingAdmissionWebhook.."
```

