Before looking into how a secret/config generator works, let’s understand what problem it solves.

👉 When you update a configmap attached to a pod as a volume, the configmap data gets propagated to the pod automatically. However, the pod does not get the latest data in the configmap in the following scenarios.

### If the pod gets environment variables from the configmap.
If a Pod consumes ConfigMap data as environment variables, the Pod does not automatically receive updates when the ConfigMap is modified.
The environment variables are populated when the Pod starts, and changes to the ConfigMap afterward are not reflected automatically in the running Pod.

Example of consuming ConfigMap as environment variables in a Pod:
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: mypod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: mycontainer
    image: myimage
    envFrom:
    - configMapRef:
        name: myconfigmap
```

### If the configmap is mounted as a volume using a subpath.
Here's an example of mounting a ConfigMap as a volume with a subpath:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: mypod
spec:
  containers:
  - name: mycontainer
    image: myimage
    volumeMounts:
    - name: myconfigmapvolume
      mountPath: /path/to/mount
  volumes:
  - name: myconfigmapvolume
    configMap:
      name: myconfigmap
      items:
      - key: mykey
        path: mykeyfile
```
#### Subpath Concept:
The use of a subpath (mykeyfile in this example) allows you to select a specific key from the ConfigMap and mount only that specific key's data rather than the entire ConfigMap. This is useful when you want to organize or isolate specific configuration files within your application.

After creating the Pod with this configuration, if you update the ConfigMap myconfigmap and change the value associated with the key mykey, the running Pod won't automatically detect the change. You would need to restart the Pod to pick up the updated value.

#### What options do we have to solve this issue?

- You can use Reloader Controller.
- Using Kustomize ConfigMap Generator


  
