## Kubectl Proxy and Kubectl Portforward

👉 Both of these tools only for development purposes, not for production.

By default, it listens on localhost:8001, and you can access the Kubernetes API and resources through this proxy.
Examples of kubectl proxy usage:

```bash
kubectl proxy
# Access the API server at http://localhost:8001
```

By default, kubectl proxy binds only to localhost, meaning that it only accepts connections originating from the local machine. 
This helps prevent external access and provides a degree of security.

### what is kubectl port forward 

kubectl port-forward is another command provided by Kubernetes, and it allows you to create a secure tunnel between your local machine and a pod running 
in your Kubernetes cluster. This tunnel enables you to access the services running inside the pod as if they were running on your local machine.

```
kubectl port-forward my-pod 8080:80
```
#### Use Cases:

- Debugging and Development:

kubectl port-forward is particularly useful for debugging and development scenarios. It allows you to interact with services inside a pod without exposing them to the wider network.

- Database Access:

You can use kubectl port-forward to access databases or other services running inside pods from your local machine, making it easier to inspect or manipulate data during development.

- Secure Access:

Unlike kubectl proxy, which may expose the Kubernetes API, kubectl port-forward provides a way to securely access services inside pods without exposing them to the public internet.
It's important to note that while kubectl port-forward is helpful during development, it is not intended for production use. For production scenarios, consider exposing services through proper Kubernetes Services and Ingress configurations.








