## Certificates and Certificate Signing Requests

- The **CertificateSigningRequest** resource type allows a client to ask for an X.509 certificate be issued, based on a signing request.
- The **CertificateSigningRequest** object includes a PEM-encoded PKCS#10 signing request in the spec.request field.

- The CertificateSigningRequest denotes the signer (the recipient that the request is being made to) using the spec.signerName field.
- Once created, a CertificateSigningRequest must be approved before it can be signed. Depending on the signer selected, a CertificateSigningRequest may be automatically approved by a controller.
- For certificates that have been approved, the next step is signing. The relevant signing controller first validates that the signing conditions are met and then creates a certificate. The signing controller then updates the CertificateSigningRequest, storing the new certificate into the status.certificate field of the existing CertificateSigningRequest object. The status.certificate field is either empty or contains a X.509 certificate, encoded in PEM format. The CertificateSigningRequest status.certificate field is empty until the signer does this. 


## Problem Statements 

### 1. Create a CertificateSigningRequest object with the name akshay with the contents of the akshay.csr file.

The user has to generate the key (using openssl), 
Then the user has to generate the CSR certificate using the generated key (using openssl).
In the given problem statement above steps are already done.

Use this command to generate the base64 encoded format as following: -

```shell
cat akshay.csr | base64 -w 0
```

Finally, save the below YAML in a file and create a CSR name akshay as follows: -

```yaml
---
apiVersion: certificates.k8s.io/v1
kind: CertificateSigningRequest
metadata:
  name: akshay
spec:
  groups:
  - system:authenticated
  request: <Paste the base64 encoded value of the CSR file>
  signerName: kubernetes.io/kube-apiserver-client
  usages:
  - client auth
```

Then finally kubectl apply . 

### Command to approve./deny CSR object 

```shell
kubectl certificate approve akshay

kubectl certificate deny akshay

```

Where akshay is CSR object.





