## How to find What is the current version of the cluster?
kubectl get nodes 

## How many nodes can host workloads in this cluster?
**Clue**: Inspect the applications and taints set on the nodes.

**Why**: 

### Node Specialization:
Taints can be used to mark nodes that are specialized or have certain characteristics, such as GPU nodes, nodes with specific hardware, or nodes with certain software dependencies.
Tolerations on pods allow them to be scheduled on nodes with matching taints, ensuring that the workload runs on nodes that meet specific requirements.

### Node Isolation:

Taints can be applied to nodes to prevent certain types of workloads from running on them. This might be useful for isolating certain workloads, ensuring that only specific nodes can run them.

### Resource Constraints:

Taints can be used to indicate resource constraints on nodes. For example, a node with limited resources might be tainted, and workloads that require less resources could be scheduled on such nodes.
Tolerations on pods allow them to be scheduled on nodes with matching taints, indicating that they can tolerate the resource constraints of those nodes.
When checking if nodes can host workloads, understanding the taints on nodes is important because it influences the scheduling decisions made by the Kubernetes scheduler. If a node has taints that don't match the tolerations of a pod, that pod won't be scheduled on that node.

To check taints on nodes, you can use the following command:

```bash
root@controlplane:~# kubectl describe nodes  controlplane | grep -i taint
Taints:             <none>
root@controlplane:~# 
root@controlplane:~# kubectl describe nodes  node01 | grep -i taint
Taints:             <none>
root@controlplane:~# 
```
Look for the "Taints" section in the output to see if there are any taints applied to the node and their corresponding effects. Understanding taints and tolerations is essential for effective workload scheduling and resource allocation in a Kubernetes cluster.

## Check What nodes are the pods hosted on?
Kubectl get pods -o wide

## What is the latest stable version of Kubernetes as of today?
Look at the remote version in the output of the kubeadm upgrade plan command.

## We will be upgrading the controlplane node first. Drain the controlplane node of workloads and mark it UnSchedulable. There are daemonsets created in this cluster, especially in the kube-system namespace. To ignore these objects and drain the node, we can make use of the --ignore-daemonsets flag.
kubectl drain controlplane --ignore-daemonsets

## Make the controlplance schedulable again 
kubectl uncordon controlplane
 


















