# Creating Users to Access the Cluster
In this lesson, we will create a user based on a fictitious character named 'John Doe' who wants to access our cluster.

We'll cover the following

Understanding the Scenario

Installing OpenSSL

Creating a User

Creating Final Certificate

Getting the Server Address

Try it yourself

Troubleshooting Tips for minikube


## Understanding the Scenario
The word about Kubernetes’ awesomeness is spreading in your company. People are becoming curious and would like to try it out.

Since you are the Kubernetes guru, it came as no surprise that you received a call from John Doe. He wants to “play” with Kubernetes, but he does not have time to set up his own cluster. Since he knows that you already have a cluster up and running, he’d appreciate it if you would let him use yours.

Since you have no intention of giving John your certificates, you decide to let him authenticate with his user.

Installing OpenSSL
You will have to create certificates for him, so the first step you’ll need to do is to verify that OpenSSL is installed.


openssl version
Verify SSL Version
It shouldn’t matter which version of OpenSSL is installed. We output the version only to verify that the software is working.

If the output is something like command not found: openssl, you will have to install the binaries.

## Creating a User
The first thing we’ll do is to create a private key for John. We’ll assume that John Doe’s username is jdoe.

mkdir keys
openssl genrsa \
    -out keys/jdoe.key 2048

Create private key for new user

We created the directory keys and generated a private key jdoe.key.

Next, we’ll use the private key to generate a certificate.

1234
openssl req -new \
    -key keys/jdoe.key \
    -out keys/jdoe.csr \
    -subj "/CN=jdoe/O=devs"
Create certificate for user
Creating Final Certificate
We created the certificate jdoe.csr with a specific subject that will help us identify John. CN is the username and O represents the organization he belongs. John is a developer, so devs should do.

For the final certificate, we’ll need the cluster’s certificate authority (CA). It will be responsible for approving the request and for generating the necessary certificate John will use to access the cluster.

Since we used k3d, the authority is already produced for us as part of the cluster creation. It should be in the /usercode/certs directory as per the volume binding.

Let’s confirm it’s there.

1
ls -1 /usercode/certs/client-ca.*
Verify Certificates
The output is as follows.

12
/usercode/certs/client-ca.crt
/usercode/certs/client-ca.key
Certificate in local directory
Now we can generate the final certificate by approving the certificate sign request jdoe.csr.

1234567
openssl x509 -req \
    -in keys/jdoe.csr \
    -CA /usercode/certs/client-ca.crt \
    -CAkey /usercode/certs/client-ca.key \
    -CAcreateserial \
    -out keys/jdoe.crt \
    -days 365
Generate final certificate
Since we feel generous, we made the certificate jdoe.crt valid for a whole year (365 days).

To simplify the process, we’ll copy the cluster’s certificate authority to the keys directory.

1
cp /usercode/certs/server-ca.crt /usercode/certs/keys
Copy clouster certificates to keys directory
Let’s check what we generated.

1
ls -1 keys
List of certificates in keys directory
The output is as follows.

1234
jdoe.crt
jdoe.csr
jdoe.key
server-ca.crt
Output of above Command
John does not need the jdoe.csr file. We used it only to generate the final certificate jdoe.crt. He will need all the other files though.

Getting the Server Address
Apart from the keys, John will need to know the address of the cluster. At the beginning of the chapter, we already created the jsonpath that retrieves the server so that part should be easy.

1234
SERVER=$(kubectl config view \
    -o jsonpath='{.clusters[?(@.name=="k3d-mycluster")].cluster.server}')

echo $SERVER
The output is as follows.

1
https://0.0.0.0:37141
Equipped with:

The new certificate (jdoe.crt)
The key (jdoe.key)
The cluster authority (ca.crt)
The address of the server,
John can configure his kubectl installation.

Try it yourself
For your ease, all the commands used in this lesson are given below:


mkdir keys
openssl genrsa \
    -out keys/jdoe.key 2048

openssl req -new \
    -key keys/jdoe.key \
    -out keys/jdoe.csr \
    -subj "/CN=jdoe/O=devs"

ls -1 /usercode/certs/client-ca.*

Commands used in this Lesson
You can practice the commands in the following terminal by pressing the Click to Connect button and waiting for the cluster to set up:

Terminal 1
Terminal
Click to Connect...

Troubleshooting Tips for minikube
While working with minikube locally, we can access the certificate-authority in the following directory:

ls -1 ~/.minikube/ca.*
Minikube’s directory might be somewhere else, so replace the path accordingly while accessing the certificates from keys directory.
