# Accessing the Cluster as a User
In this lesson, we will impersonate John and try to get the access authenticated.

We'll cover the following

Authentication

Configuring kubectl

Setting the Credentials

Creating a New Context

No Authorization

## Authentication #
Since John is not around, we’ll do some role-playing and impersonate him.

## Configuring kubectl #
John will first have to set the cluster using the address and the certificate authority we sent him.

```
kubectl config set-cluster jdoe \
    --certificate-authority \
    /usercode/certs/keys/server-ca.crt \
    --server $SERVER
```

We created a new cluster called jdoe.

Please note that the command we executed created just another config entry that enables to access all resources that currently exist in the cluster. It manipulated local text file, without changing anything in the existing cluster.

## Setting the Credentials #
Next, he’ll have to set the credentials using the certificate and the key we created for him.

```
kubectl config set-credentials jdoe \
    --client-certificate keys/jdoe.crt \
    --client-key keys/jdoe.key
```

We created a new set of credentials called jdoe.

## Creating a New Context #
Finally, John will have to create a new context.

```
kubectl config set-context jdoe \
    --cluster jdoe \
    --user jdoe

kubectl config use-context jdoe
```
We created the context jdoe that uses the newly created cluster and the user. We also made sure that we’re using the newly created context.

Let’s take a look at the config.

```
kubectl config view
```

The output, limited to John’s settings, is as follows.

```
...
clusters:
- cluster:
    certificate-authority: /usercode/certs/keys/server-ca.crt
    server: https://0.0.0.0:44573
  name: jdoe
...
contexts:
- context:
    cluster: jdoe
```

## No Authorization #
John should be happy thinking that he can access our cluster. Since he’s a curious person, he’ll want to see the Pods we’re running.

```
kubectl get pods
```
The output is as follows.

```
Error from server (Forbidden): pods is forbidden: User "jdoe" cannot list resource "pods" in API group "" in the namespace "default"
That’s frustrating. John can reach our cluster, but he cannot retrieve the list of Pods. Since hope dies last, John might check whether he is forbidden from seeing other types of objects.
```

```
kubectl get all
```

The output is a long list of all the objects he’s forbidden from seeing. So, in other words, John is authenticated successfully, but he is not authorized to view objects in the cluster.

John picks up his phone to beg not only that you give him access to the cluster but also the permissions to “play” with it.

***For your ease, all the commands used in this lesson are given below:***

```
kubectl config set-cluster jdoe \
    --certificate-authority \
    /usercode/certs/keys/server-ca.crt \
    --server $SERVER

kubectl config set-credentials jdoe \
    --client-certificate keys/jdoe.crt \
    --client-key keys/jdoe.key

kubectl config set-context jdoe \
```
