## Combining Role Bindings with Namespaces
In this lesson, we will combine Role Bindings with Namespaces and create a user-specific Namespace.


Looking into the Definition

Creating the Resources

Verification

User Specific Namespace

Looking into the Definition

Creating the Resources

Verification

## The Solution#
The new request demanding more freedom provides an excellent opportunity to combine Namespaces with Role Bindings.

We can create a dev Namespace and allow a selected group of users to do almost anything in it. That should give developers enough freedom within the dev Namespace while avoiding the risks of negatively impacting the resources running in others.

## Looking into the Definition#
Let’s take a look at the rb-dev.yml definition.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: dev

---

apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:

Definition of 'rb-dev.yml'
```

Line 1-4: The first section defines the dev Namespace.

Line 8-20: The second section specifies the binding with the same name. Since we’re using RoleBinding (not ClusterRoleBinding), the effects will be limited to the dev Namespace. At the moment, there is only one subject (the User jdoe). We can expect the list to grow with time.

Line 17-20: roleRef uses ClusterRole (not Role) kind. Even though the Cluster Role is available across the whole cluster, the fact that we are combining it with RoleBinding will limit it to the specified Namespace.

The Cluster Role admin has an extensive set of resources and verbs, and the Users (at the moment only jdoe) will be able to do almost anything within the dev Namespace.

## Creating the Resources#
Let’s create the new resources.

```
kubectl create -f rb-dev.yml \
    --record --save-config
```

Create resources for user
The output is as follows.

namespace/dev created
rolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/dev created

Output of above Command

We can see that the Namespace and the Role Binding were created.

## Verification#
Let’s verify that, for example, jdoe can create and delete Deployments.

```
kubectl --namespace dev auth can-i \
    create deployments --as jdoe

kubectl --namespace dev auth can-i \
    delete deployments --as jdoe
```

Verification of user permissions
In both cases, the output was yes, confirming that jdoe can perform at least create and delete actions with Deployments. Since we already explored the list of resources defined in the Cluster Role admin, we can assume that we’d get the same response if we’d check other operations.

Still, there are a few permissions that are not granted to John. Only the cluster-admin role covers all the permissions. The Cluster Role admin is very wide, but it does not include all the resources and verbs. We can confirm that with the command that follows.

```
kubectl --namespace dev auth can-i \
    "*" "*" --as jdoe
```

Verification of user as cluster-admin
The output is no, indicating that there are still a few operations forbidden to John within the dev Namespace. Those operations are mostly related to cluster administration that is still in our control.

John is happy. He and his fellow developers have a segment of the cluster where they can do almost anything without affecting other Namespaces.

John is a team player, but he’d also like to have space for himself. Now that he knows how easy it was to create a Namespace for developers, he’s wondering whether we could generate one only for him. We cannot deny the fact that his new request makes sense.

User Specific Namespace#
It should be easy to create his personal Namespace, so why not grant him that wish.

Looking into the Definition#
Let’s take a look at yet another YAML definition rb-jdoe.yml.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: jdoe

---

apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
```

Definition of `rb-jdoe.yml`
This definition is not much different from the previous one. The important change is that the Namespace is jdoe, and that John is likely to be its only user, at least until he decides to add someone else.

By referencing the role cluster-admin, he’s given full permissions to do whatever he wants within that Namespace. He might deploy something cool and give others permissions to see it. It’s his Namespace, and he should be able to do anything he likes inside it.

Creating the Resources#
Let’s create the new resources.

```shell
kubectl create -f rb-jdoe.yml \
    --record --save-config
```

Create new resoruces for user
Verification#
Before we move on, we’ll confirm that John can indeed do anything he likes in the jdoe Namespace.

```yaml
kubectl --namespace jdoe auth can-i \
    "*" "*" --as jdoe
```
verification of admin role for user in 'Jdoe' namespace
As expected, the response is yes, indicating that John is a god-like figure in his own little galaxy.

