## How to Make sure that the triton pod uses a read-only root filesystem.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  labels:
    name: triton
    namespace: alpha
  name: triton
  namespace: alpha
spec:
  containers:
  - image: httpd
    name: triton
    securityContext:
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
```
This part:

```yaml
securityContext:
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
```

## What is the Problem it will cause to the POD ?
Since the pod is running with readOnlyRootFilesystem: true, it might need to access somefiles of root file system to write. As it is not able to do so 
it will fail to run.

## What is the solution for this ?
**emptyDir Volume**

### Purpose of emptyDir Volume:

#### Sharing Data Between Containers:

The emptyDir volume is often used to share data between containers within the same Pod. In this example, the log-volume is mounted into the Apache HTTP Server container at the path /usr/local/apache2/logs.

#### Temporary Storage:

emptyDir is a temporary storage volume that is initially empty when a Pod is created. It exists on the node where the Pod is scheduled.
Containers within the Pod can read and write data to this shared volume.

#### Logs and Runtime Data:

In the context of an Apache HTTP Server, the /usr/local/apache2/logs directory is commonly used to store logs. By using an emptyDir volume, multiple containers within the same Pod can write log data to a shared location.

### Use Cases and Considerations:

#### Log Aggregation:

When running multiple containers that need to contribute logs to a centralized log storage or analysis system, they can write logs to a shared emptyDir volume.

#### Temporary Data Sharing:

Containers may need to share temporary data or state during their runtime. The emptyDir volume provides a shared space for such purposes.

#### Pod Lifetime:

Data stored in an emptyDir volume persists as long as the Pod exists. If the Pod is deleted or rescheduled, the data in the emptyDir volume is lost.
#### Security Implications:
Consider the security implications of sharing data between containers. Ensure that access control and permission settings are appropriately configured.

#### ReadOnlyRootFilesystem:
In the example, readOnlyRootFilesystem: true is set in the security context of the container. This makes the root filesystem of the container read-only, enhancing security by preventing any writes to the root filesystem.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  labels:
    name: triton
  name: triton
  namespace: alpha
spec:
  containers:
  - image: httpd
    name: triton
    securityContext:
      readOnlyRootFilesystem: true
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /usr/local/apache2/logs
      name: log-volume
  volumes:
  - name: log-volume
    emptyDir: {}
```


