Kubernetes v1.22 provides an alpha release for the successor of Pod Security Policy (PSP) (which is scheduled for deprecation in v1.25).
Successor of PSP are : PSS and PSA .

- Pod Security Standards
- Pod Security Admission

## Pod Security Standards
The Pod Security Standards define three different policies to broadly cover the security spectrum. These policies are cumulative and range from highly-permissive to highly-restrictive. This guide outlines the requirements of each policy.

### Profile	Description
- Privileged	Unrestricted policy, providing the widest possible level of permissions. This policy allows for known privilege escalations.
- Baseline	Minimally restrictive policy which prevents known privilege escalations. Allows the default (minimally specified) Pod configuration.
- Restricted	Heavily restricted policy, following current Pod hardening best practices.

## Pod Security Admission
FEATURE STATE: Kubernetes v1.25 [stable]
The Kubernetes Pod Security Standards define different isolation levels for Pods. 
These standards let you define how you want to restrict the behavior of pods in a clear, consistent fashion.

Kubernetes offers a built-in Pod Security admission controller to enforce the Pod Security Standards. 
Pod security restrictions are applied at the namespace level when pods are created.

### Pod Security Admission labels for namespaces
- enforce	Policy violations will cause the pod to be rejected.
- audit	Policy violations will trigger the addition of an audit annotation to the event recorded in the audit log, but are otherwise allowed.
- warn	Policy violations will trigger a user-facing warning, but are otherwise allowed.

### Example usage
https://github.com/bmuschko/cks-crash-course/blob/master/exercises/06-pod-security-admission/solution/solution.md
